Goal was to extract pixel values on specific locations (805 georeferenced circular polygons data) from terabytes of satellite imagery. Pixel values of the areas of interest were batch extracted from satellite imagery and stored as tabular data in CSV format. Rationale behind this concept was to avoid usage of RAM for any visualization purposes, and to store the results in a tabular form from which various statistical analysis could be easily implemented. R, a free programming language and software environment for statistical computing, was used for this procedure. Packages raster, rgdal, rgeos and their dependencies were of most importance. 
Foundation of the data extraction script was the function extract of raster package implemented in nested for loop with recursive search for TIFF data. First of all, a shapefile spatial data format containing vector information (805 circular polygons) on the areas of interest was imported in R. Then, a for loop was made based on the results of the modified list.dirs function which recursively scanned through folders and returned only those folder paths that contain satellite imagery within them. Since the first loop provides only a list of paths containing images, another for loop was nested within it in order to import images from the folder one at a time in R. On each of the images in the folder (9 bands with 20 m resolution and SCL raster) extract function was implemented which returned values of all pixels positioned at the locations of previously imported shapefile and stored them into columns of a dataframe. Moreover, for each row of the dataframe additional information was extracted from pixels, file names, and shapefiles. This was necessary in order to be able to join the codes of the circular polygons and their respective field measurement data with the pixel values extracted. Regarding pixels, additional information extracted included the exact coordinates of the pixel centroids and their weights within the polygon. Weights hold information about the fraction of each cell that is covered by the polygon, which is important in order to be able to distinguish those pixels that are only marginally within area of interest. Pixels coordinates were used as a link with the shapefile data. Buffers were created at the location of pixels extracted, and function over from package sp was implemented. This function joined the attribute table information of the areas of the interest, such as tree species and management classes, with the pixel coordinates and stored them in the corresponding rows in the dataframe. File names contained the information about sensing time, which was extracted and stored in the dataframe as well, since this information would be crucial for later purposes. After finishing with pixel extraction of the last image in the folder, primary for loop would begin with the extraction and storage of pixel values of satellite image data from the succeeding folder paths in the list.

